# First steps

This page provides a short playbook which introduces you to the most important features of Lupus Decoupled Drupal. It only takes 1-2 minutes to follow:

## Creating and viewing content

1. Create an article
In the backend, login and go to `/node/add/article` to create some first example content.  Fill in some random content and save it.

2. After saving, you are redirected to the frontend, which renders the basic data of your content. You can customize that easily, as described under the [customize output](/get-started/customize-output) page. For now, stay here and remember the frontend URL of your page, e.g. `/node/1`.

3. On the frontend go the user login, e.g. `/user/login?destination=/`. Login with your usual Drupal credentials, e.g. and admin or editor account.

4.  After logging in, go back to your created content in the frontend, e.g. `/node/1`. Take not of the local task links (or "Drupal-tabs") that appear now.

5. Click the `Edit` task link, to get back to the Drupal edit page. Now, let's change the URL in the sidebar right, e.g. to `/example-path`. Also, in the sidebar, enable the  option to provide a menu item and keep the defaults.

6. Save the form and take note of the changes appearing in the frontend:
    * The URL of the content changed to `/example-path`.
    * A menu items is appearing in the main menu, which is part of the site header.
    * A success message is provided by Drupal and shown in the frontend.

7. Optionally, you may log out in the frontend, separate from the backend, by visiting the `/user/logout` path in the frontend.

## Inspecting API output of content

1. After creating content, it's listed in Drupal's content management screen at `/admin/content/node` in the backend.

2. To inspect the custom element API output of some content, use the drop-down of the `Edit` operation button on the right and choose the entry `API output`. It shows the API output of the associated page.

3. Optionally, switch between markup and JSON serialization by appending the query parameter `?_content_format=markup` or `?_content_format=json` to the URL of the API output.
