---
title: Home - Lupus Decoupled Drupal
navigation: false
layout: page
main:
  fluid: false
---

:ellipsis{right=0px width=75% blur=150px}

::block-hero
---
cta:
  - How it works
  - /get-started/how-it-works
secondary:
  - Try it →
  - /get-started/play-online
snippet:
  - // Drupal module
  - composer require drupal/lupus_decoupled
  -
  - // Nuxt module
  - npx nuxi@latest module add drupal-ce
---

#title
The power of Drupal, <br> with a modern frontend

#description
Enjoy component-oriented Decoupled Drupal with [Nuxt](https://nuxt.com) and [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org)

#extra
  ::list
  - A complete, fully integrated solution - working **out of the box**!
  - Drupal powered editorial control of pages, layouts, paths, metatags, breadcrumbs and previews
  - Leverage **Drupal authentication** in the frontend. Edit buttons and Drupal messages just work!
  - Performance focused, integrates well with Drupal page caching!
  - Multi-Frontend: Works with any frontend, while defaulting to Nuxt
  - Low-code: Configure Drupal API output, no PHP-coding required!
::

::card-grid
#title
Main features

#root
:ellipsis{left=0px width=40rem top=10rem blur=140px}

#default
  ::card{icon=simple-icons:drupal}
  #title
  The power of Drupal
  #description
  Build versatile, structured content. Incredible tools, proudly open source!
  ::

  ::card{icon=tabler:layers-linked}
  #title
  Fully integrated
  #description
    Authentication and edit links in the frontend, simply working previews in the backend.
  ::

  ::card{icon=hugeicons:keyframes-multiple-add}
  #title
  Multi-frontend
  #description
  Component-oriented decoupled Drupal makes it easy to connect your frontend of choice!
  ::

  ::card{icon=simple-icons:nuxtdotjs}
  #title
  Nuxt default frontend
  #description
  Web development intuitive and powerful. With the power of Vue Components [(more)](https://nuxt.com)
  ::

  ::card{icon=tabler:layout-board}
  #title
  Low-code
  #description
  Configure Drupal-API output and allow editors to compose pages.
  ::

  ::card{icon=humbleicons:rocket}
  #title
  Easy deployment
  #description
  Leverage Nuxt deployment presets or deploy everything at a unified hosting provider.
  ::

::
