# Default components

**Note**: This feature is atm only available when using the (default) JSON-based rendered of custom elements.

## Overview

When using JSON-based rendering of custom elements, the module offers fallback component support. If a custom element lacks a corresponding Vue component, the module attempts to find a suitable default component.

## Use-case

This feature makes it possible to define a general custom element, e.g. for drupal forms `drupal-form--default.vue`, which is used to render every custom element `drupal-form-*` when no specific custom element is available. That way, specific elements provided by Drupal, e.g. `drupal-form-user-login-form.vue`, have the default applied, while it's easily possible to copy and customize the default component.

The same way it becomes handy to have general default components for content entities, like `node--default.vue`, paired with element names like `node-article-page`. That way it's easy to implement a general default component that suits multiple cases, while specific elements can easily be customized.

#### How it works:

1. The module removes the last `-`-separated prefix from the element name.
2. It then appends a `--default` suffix.
3. If this modified component exists, it's used for rendering.
4. If the component is not exiting, the process is repeated.

#### Example lookup process

When a specific component isn't found, the module searches for a default component by progressively removing segments from the custom element name. For example when rendering the custom element `node-custom-view` it looks for components in the following order:

```
x node-custom-view.vue
x node-custom-view--default.vue
x node-custom--default.vue
✓ node--default.vue
```
