# Page Layouts

Nuxt layouts are placed in the `./layouts` directory and are used to define a shared [site layout](/guide/site-layout-menus)
for a group of pages. When a page has a different layout, nuxt takes care of swapping the layout component(s).

For example, you can have a `default.vue` layout that is used for most pages, and a `blog.vue` layout that is used for
all blog posts.

## Create a layout

To create a layout, simply create a `.vue` file in the `./layouts` directory.

```vue
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Blog layout</h1>
    <slot />
  </div>
</template>
```

## Drupal controlled layouts

The Drupal page API comes with a `page_layout` attribute within its response. By default, this is used to control which
layout is applied by Nuxt. This allows Drupal code to customize the layout used by Nuxt.

To set a custom layout from within Drupal, the `page_layout` attribute must be set accordingly, e.g. via
`hook_lupus_ce_renderer_response_alter()`.

## Setting the layout in the frontend

The frontend may set a custom layout by proving a custom page component for some routes. For example, to change the
layout for all `/news/*` routes controlled by Drupal via the page API, create a component `news/[...slug].vue` in the
pages directory of Nuxt. Then make the page component follow the logic of the default page component, but override the
layout to be hard-coded:

```vue
<script lang="ts">
  import DefaultPage from '../[...slug].vue'

  export default {
    extends: DefaultPage,
    async setup() {
      const { fetchPage, renderCustomElements, usePageHead, getPageLayout } = useDrupalCe()
      const page = await fetchPage(useRoute().path, {
        query: useRoute().query,
      }, undefined, true)

      const layout = 'custom'
      usePageHead(page)

      return {
        page,
        layout,
        renderCustomElements,
      }
    },
  }
</script>
```

## Nuxt layout documentation

For more information on routing in Nuxt.js, see the [Nuxt layouts documentation](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/directory-structure/layouts).
