# Rendering modes

With Nuxt you can decide what rendering strategy you want to use, if you like even at the route level.

**Please refer
to the Nuxt documentation about [Rendering modes](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/concepts/rendering) to learn more.**

The following provides some additional overview about implication of each rendering mode when using it with Lupus Decoupled Drupal:

## Server-side Rendering (SSR) - default

Server-side rendering is used as a default, which is best for SEO, and works the most seamlessly for editors thanks to the
support of Drupal authentication. Nuxt supports server-rendering via regular (Node.js) servers or in a serverless way, e.g. at the [edge](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/concepts/rendering#edge-side-rendering).

## Static-site Generation (SSG)

Static-site generation results in a set of pre-generated files which a regular HTTP server or a CDN can serve, what can help to
make hosting much more simple.

Additionally, by publishing only static files, site security can be improved. However, there is also a drawback:
Editors need to be aware of the pre-rendering step, the frontend is static and no drupal-forms are supported (atm). Nuxt supports a [preview-mode](https://nuxt.com/docs/api/composables/use-preview-mode#usepreviewmode) which can be implemented and provided to editors though. Read more about it in the Nuxt [Prerendering Guide](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/prerendering).

## Client-side Rendering (CSR)

When SEO is not important and a small client-side rendering delay is acceptable to users, client-side rendering can
be a simple alternative to server-side rendering, that does not require any special infrastructure. 

Just like with SSG, simply hosting static files is enough. At the moment, no drupal-forms are supported, but Drupal authentication works with the help
of the Lupus Decoupled CORS sub-module.
